# gnet_stimulus_generator
Stimulus generating script(s) for the Graded Novelty Encoding Task.

The scripts generate three vectors (length: 9) for each stimulus. The vectors describe arrangement, shapes and colors.
Arrangement describes which of the 9 possible locations hold a shape (3x3 grid).
Shapes vector describes the shapes (1 - square, 2 - circle, 3 - triangle).
Colors vector describes the colors (1 - red, 2 - blue, 3 - green, 4 - yellow, 5 - orange, 6 - purple).

# stimulus_generator_v1.R
This is the original script used to generate the stimulus set for Reichardt, Simor & Polner, 2021.
This script places 5 shapes in all stimuli.
The script generates 10 random stimuli. The first 5 serve as familiars in the task. The other five is the starting point for the generation of the fully novel category.
The 5 familiars are used to generate the novel shapes and colors category (shape and color vectors are randomized).
The 5 familiars are used to generate the novel shapes category (shape vector is randomized).
The 5 familiars are used to generate the novel colors category (color vector is randomized).
The 5 familiars are used to generate the novel color combinations category (color vector is randomized using only the original colors).
The script generates a picturedata.csv output to store the vectors describing the stimuli.
The script then generates the .png images to use in the experiment with the R library plotrix.

# difference_indicators.R
This R script calculates some difference indicators for a given stimulus pool using picturedata.csv.
# stimpool_analysis.Rmd
This R Markdown script generates some plots to visualize the difference indicators calculated by difference_indicators.R

# stimulus_generator_blender.py
This is a python script to use with Blender.
The script reads the picturedata.csv generated by stimulus_generator_v1.R and generates images of 3D scenes assembled by Blender.
The shapes are three dimensional: cube, orb and tetrahedron.
